@nicholasjhorton From my search, I found a couple of good resources that have analyzed Frankenstein, but honestly, not as many as I thought there would be. There does not seem to be a Frankenstein-specific data package in R already set up, and the text analyses that I found used the Project Gutenberg package (gutenbergr) and read the data in from there.

(https://academic.oup.com/dsh/article/38/2/750/6773078) This paper is an analysis of whether Mary Shelley really wrote Frankenstein (as opposed to her husband Percy Bysshe Shelley) and analyzed function words and character n-grams among other methods to conclude that Mary Shelley most likely wrote Frankenstein. This is an interesting way of using text analytics for Frankenstein, but perhaps not something that could be built upon.

(https://sd18spring.github.io/notes/Frankenstein%20and%20Dracula%20Text%20Analysis) This project compared the sentence structure of both Frankenstein and Dracula and then creates a machine learning model that attempts to predict which work a sentence comes from. The model uses multiple logistic regression to then try and classify sentences from each work. This is similar to the activity using the Federalist Papers. A way to expand on this would be to perhaps compare Frankenstein to other gothic horror novels of that time or perhaps other novels by Mary Shelley.

(https://amateurdatasci.rbind.io/post/hideous-progeny-tidytext-frankenstein/) This project looks at Frankenstein and does a bunch of analysis by chapter. The author uses different forms of sentiment analysis, such as the AFINN score or the NRC lexicon. This project mostly used surface-level sentiment analysis and could be expanded by comparing the different chapters using a model or by using a different lexicon. Other visual graphics could be more descriptive of the sentiment.
